---
layout: page
title:  Find the Highest Altitude-out
permalink: /s1732
---
You are given an integer array `gain` of length `n` where `gain[i]` is the net gain in altitude between points `i` and `i + 1` for all `0 <= i < n`. The array `gain` represents the net gain in altitude experienced while traversing from one point to the next along a hiking trail.

Your task is to find the highest altitude possible during the hike. Assume that the starting altitude is 0.

### Example
**Input:**
```
gain = [-5, 1, 5, 0, -7]
```
**Output:**
```
1
```
**Explanation:**
- Starting at altitude 0.
- Gain -5: altitude = 0 - 5 = -5
- Gain 1: altitude = -5 + 1 = -4
- Gain 5: altitude = -4 + 5 = 1
- Gain 0: altitude = 1 + 0 = 1
- Gain -7: altitude = 1 - 7 = -6
- The highest altitude is 1.

## Clarifying Questions
1. Can `gain` contain both positive and negative integers? 
   - Yes.
2. Is it guaranteed that `gain` will have at least one element?
   - Yes.

## Strategy
1. Initialize `current_altitude` to 0 and `max_altitude` also to 0.
2. Iterate through each value in `gain` and adjust `current_altitude` by adding the current gain.
3. During each adjustment, compare and update `max_altitude` if `current_altitude` is higher.
4. Return `max_altitude` after completing the iteration.

## Code
```python
def largestAltitude(gain):
    current_altitude = 0
    max_altitude = 0

    for g in gain:
        current_altitude += g
        if current_altitude > max_altitude:
            max_altitude = current_altitude

    return max_altitude
```

## Time Complexity
The time complexity of the solution is O(n), where n is the length of the `gain` array. This is because we need to iterate through all the elements of the `gain` array once.

The space complexity is O(1) because we are using a constant amount of space regardless of the input size.


### Try our interview co-pilot at [AlgoAdvance.com](https://algoAdvance.com)

- Got blindsided by a question you didn't expect?

- Spend too much time studying?

- Or simply don't have the time to go over all 3000 questions?

