---
layout: page
title:  K Items With the Maximum Sum-out
permalink: /s2600
---

You are given three integers `numOnes`, `numZeros`, and `numNegOnes`. You are also given an integer `k`. We want to choose a total of `k` items from `numOnes`, `numZeros`, and `numNegOnes` such that we maximize their sum. 

- `numOnes` represents the number of `1`s.
- `numZeros` represents the number of `0`s.
- `numNegOnes` represents the number of `-1`s.

Return the maximum possible sum of `k` items.

### Clarifying Questions

1. Can `k` be greater than the sum of `numOnes`, `numZeros`, and `numNegOnes`? 
   - No, `k` will be a valid integer such that `k` ≤ `numOnes` + `numZeros` + `numNegOnes`.

2. Are the values of `numOnes`, `numZeros`, and `numNegOnes` guaranteed to be non-negative integers?
   - Yes, all given values will be non-negative integers.

### Strategy

To maximize the sum of `k` items:
1. Prioritize taking all `1`s first since they have the highest value.
2. If more items are needed and we run out of `1`s, take `0`s next as they do not affect the sum.
3. If we still need more items and run out of `0`s, take `-1`s as they decrease the sum.

Steps:
1. Take the minimum of `k` and `numOnes` number of `1`s.
2. Subtract the number of `1`s taken from `k`.
3. Use the remaining `k` to take as many `0`s as possible.
4. Use the remaining `k` to take `-1`s and reduce the sum accordingly.

### Code

```python
def kItemsWithMaximumSum(numOnes, numZeros, numNegOnes, k):
    # Initialize the sum
    max_sum = 0
    
    # Take as many 1s as possible
    ones_taken = min(numOnes, k)
    max_sum += ones_taken
    k -= ones_taken
    
    # If k is still greater than 0, take 0s
    zeros_taken = min(numZeros, k)
    k -= zeros_taken
    
    # If k is still greater than 0, take -1s (which subtract from the sum)
    neg_ones_taken = min(numNegOnes, k)
    max_sum -= neg_ones_taken
    
    return max_sum
```

### Time Complexity

The time complexity of this solution is O(1) because the number of operations we perform does not depend on the size of the input but on a series of constant-time comparisons and arithmetic operations.

By using this strategy, we ensure that we are maximizing the sum efficiently within the constraints provided.


### Try our interview co-pilot at [AlgoAdvance.com](https://algoAdvance.com)

- Got blindsided by a question you didn't expect?

- Spend too much time studying?

- Or simply don't have the time to go over all 3000 questions?

