---
layout: page
title: leetcode 292. Nim Game
permalink: /s292-js
---
[Leetcode 292. Nim Game](https://algoadvance.github.io/algoadvance/l292)
### Problem Statement
292. **Nim Game**

You are playing the following Nim Game with your friend:

- Initially, there is a heap of stones on the table.
- You and your friend will alternate taking turns, and you go first.
- On each turn, the player taking the turn will remove 1 to 3 stones from the heap.
- The one who removes the last stone is the winner.

Given `n`, the number of stones in the heap, return `true` if you can win the game assuming both you and your friend play optimally, otherwise, return `false`.

### Clarifying Questions
1. Can `n` be zero or a negative number (underflow)?
    - No, `n` is always a positive integer.
    
2. What is the maximum length of `n` we should consider?
    - For the context of this problem, `n` can be reasonably large, but typically will fit within the bounds of a 32-bit integer.

### Strategy
The strategy to win the Nim game involves understanding the pattern:
- If the number of stones `n` is a multiple of 4, then you will always lose if both play optimally, because whatever you do, your friend can always leave you another multiple of 4 stones.
- If `n` is not a multiple of 4, you can ensure your win by leaving a multiple of 4 stones for your friend.

Thus, the solution is simple:
- If `n % 4 == 0`, return `false` (you can't win if you go first).
- Otherwise, return `true` (you can win if you go first).

### Code

```javascript
/**
 * @param {number} n
 * @return {boolean}
 */
const canWinNim = function(n) {
    return n % 4 !== 0;
};
```

### Time Complexity
The time complexity of this solution is **O(1)**, which means it is a constant time solution because it involves a single modulo operation and a comparison, which are both constant time operations.


### Cut your prep time in half and DOMINATE your interview with [AlgoAdvance AI](https://algoAdvance.com)

- Got blindsided by a question you didn't expect?

- Spend too much time studying?

- Or simply don't have the time to go over all 3000 questions?

