---
layout: page
title: leetcode 2977. Minimum Cost to Convert String II
permalink: /s2977-js
---
[Leetcode 2977. Minimum Cost to Convert String II](https://algoadvance.github.io/algoadvance/l2977)
### Problem Statement

You are given two strings `start` and `target`, each of length `n`. A string `s` can be transformed into string `t` by appending any character to the end of string `s`. You want to transform `start` into `target`, maintaining order of characters. For instance, to change "abc" into "acb", you need to:

1. Change "abc" -> "abc "
2. Change " " -> " b"
3. Change "abc " -> "abc b"

Your task is to determine the minimum number of operations required to convert `start` to `target`.

### Clarifying Questions

1. **Does the transformation require the characters to be in-place?**
   - No, characters can be appended in the conversion process.
   
2. **Are both strings `start` and `target` guaranteed to be of the same length?**
   - Yes, they are both of length `n`.

3. **Should the transformation maintain the order of characters in both `start` and `target`?**
   - Yes.

### Strategy

To solve this problem, we can use dynamic programming to keep track of the minimum operations required at each step. We will create a matrix `dp` where `dp[i][j]` will represent the minimum operations required to convert the first `i` characters of `start` to the first `j` characters of `target`.

1. If `start[i-1] == target[j-1]`, no extra operation is needed other than the operations to convert `start[0..i-2]` to `target[0..j-2]`.
2. Otherwise, we will consider an operation and add 1 to the minimum of the three possible operations:
    - Insert `target[j-1]`.
    - Ignore `start[i-1]`.
    - Replace `start[i-1]` with `target[j-1]`.

### Code

```javascript
function minCostToConvertString(start, target) {
    const n = start.length;
    const dp = Array.from({ length: n + 1 }, () => Array(n + 1).fill(0));

    for (let i = 0; i <= n; i++) {
        for (let j = 0; j <= n; j++) {
            if (i === 0) {
                dp[i][j] = j;
            } else if (j === 0) {
                dp[i][j] = i;
            } else if (start[i - 1] === target[j - 1]) {
                dp[i][j] = dp[i - 1][j - 1];
            } else {
                dp[i][j] = 1 + Math.min(dp[i - 1][j], dp[i][j - 1]);
            }
        }
    }

    return dp[n][n];
}

const start = "abc";
const target = "acb";
console.log(minCostToConvertString(start, target)); // Output the minimum cost
```

### Time Complexity

The time complexity of this solution is \(O(n^2)\) since we are using a double loop to fill the `dp` table of size \(n \times n\).

### Space Complexity

The space complexity is also \(O(n^2)\) due to the storage required for the `dp` table.


### Cut your prep time in half and DOMINATE your interview with [AlgoAdvance AI](https://algoAdvance.com)

- Got blindsided by a question you didn't expect?

- Spend too much time studying?

- Or simply don't have the time to go over all 3000 questions?

