---
layout: page
title: leetcode 319. Bulb Switcher
permalink: /s319-js
---
[Leetcode 319. Bulb Switcher](https://algoadvance.github.io/algoadvance/l319)
## Problem Statement

You have `n` bulbs initially turned off. You first turn on all the bulbs. Then, you turn off every second bulb. On the third round, you toggle every third bulb (turn it on if it's off, or turn it off if it's on). For the `i-th` round, you toggle every `i-th` bulb. For the `n-th` round, you only toggle the last bulb. Find how many bulbs are on after `n` rounds.

**Example:**

```plaintext
Input: n = 3
Output: 1
Explanation: At first, the three bulbs are [off, off, off].
After first round, the three bulbs are [on, on, on].
After second round, the three bulbs are [on, off, on].
After third round, the three bulbs are [on, off, off].

So you should return 1 because there is only one bulb that is on.
```

## Clarifying Questions

1. What is the maximum value of `n`? 
   - This helps in understanding time and space complexity limitations.
2. Should we consider the initial state of the bulbs or rounds as given in the example? 
   - This ensures we follow the same toggle behavior.
3. Are `n` rounds guaranteed?
   - Ensuring the number of rounds is always valid based on `n`.

## Strategy

1. Initially, we consider all bulbs to be off state.
2. For each round, we'll toggle the bulbs based on the defined pattern.
3. We realize that a bulb will end up being on if it is toggled an odd number of times.
4. A bulb at position `i` is toggled in every divisor of `i` round. So, the bulb will be toggled an odd number of times if `i` has an odd number of divisors.
5. The only way for a number to have an odd number of divisors is if it is a perfect square because divisors usually come in pairs.

So, the task simplifies to finding how many perfect squares are there up to `n`.

## Code

Here's the implementation of the solution:

```javascript
function bulbSwitch(n) {
    return Math.floor(Math.sqrt(n));
}
```

## Time Complexity

The time complexity of this implementation is `O(1)` since the calculation of the square root and then flooring it is done in constant time. This makes it very efficient even for large values of `n`.


### Cut your prep time in half and DOMINATE your interview with [AlgoAdvance AI](https://algoAdvance.com)

- Got blindsided by a question you didn't expect?

- Spend too much time studying?

- Or simply don't have the time to go over all 3000 questions?

