---
layout: page
title: leetcode 605. Can Place Flowers
permalink: /s605-java
---
[Leetcode 605. Can Place Flowers](https://algoadvance.github.io/algoadvance/l605)
### Problem Statement
You have a long flowerbed in which some plots are planted, and some are not. However, flowers cannot be planted in adjacent plots.

Given an integer array `flowerbed` containing 0's and 1's, where `0` means empty and `1` means not empty, and an integer `n`, return if `n` new flowers can be planted in the `flowerbed` without violating the no-adjacent-flowers rule.

#### Example 1:
- Input: `flowerbed = [1,0,0,0,1], n = 1`
- Output: `true`

#### Example 2:
- Input: `flowerbed = [1,0,0,0,1], n = 2`
- Output: `false`

### Clarifying Questions
1. **Can the flowerbed array be empty?**
   - No, according to the problem statement, it's always provided as non-empty.
2. **What should be the output if `n` is 0?**
   - The output should be `true` since we don't need to plant any flowers.
3. **What constraints are placed on the values in the flowerbed array?**
   - The `flowerbed` array will only contain 0's and 1's.

### Strategy
1. **Iterate Through the Flowerbed:**
   - Iterate through each position in the flowerbed.
   
2. **Check Planting Conditions:**
   - For each element, check if the current plot is 0 and its adjacent plots (left and right) are also 0 or out of bounds of the array.
   
3. **Plant a Flower if Possible:**
   - If the position meets the criteria, plant a flower there (set the position to 1) and decrease the count of `n`.

4. **Check Completion:**
   - If at any point `n` reaches 0, return `true`.
   
5. **Return the Result:**
   - After completing the loop, if `n` is still greater than 0, return `false`.

### Code
```java
public class Solution {
    public boolean canPlaceFlowers(int[] flowerbed, int n) {
        int length = flowerbed.length;
        
        for (int i = 0; i < length && n > 0; i++) {
            if (flowerbed[i] == 0) {
                boolean emptyLeft = (i == 0) || (flowerbed[i - 1] == 0);
                boolean emptyRight = (i == length - 1) || (flowerbed[i + 1] == 0);
                
                if (emptyLeft && emptyRight) {
                    flowerbed[i] = 1;
                    n--;
                }
            }
        }
        
        return n <= 0;
    }
}
```

### Time Complexity
- **Time Complexity:** `O(N)`, where `N` is the number of elements in the flowerbed array. This is because we iterate through the flowerbed array once.
- **Space Complexity:** `O(1)`, as we are not using any extra space that grows with the input size.


### Cut your prep time in half and DOMINATE your interview with [AlgoAdvance AI](https://algoAdvance.com)

- Got blindsided by a question you didn't expect?

- Spend too much time studying?

- Or simply don't have the time to go over all 3000 questions?

